[Term Entry] JavaScript Objects .groupBy() (#4095)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/objects/terms/groupBy/groupBy.md

---
Title: '.groupBy()'

> Description: 'Groups objects by a key.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Used to group objects based on a key extracted from each object using a provided callback function.'
```
It is a best practice to be more specific.

Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Objects'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path'
---

> The **`.groupBy()`** method groups items according to the value returned by a [callback function](https://codecademy.com/ressources/docs/javascript/callbacks). The value of the `.groupBy()` method is a null-prototype object: it doesn't inherit any object methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.groupBy()`** method groups items according to the value returned by a [callback function](https://codecademy.com/ressources/docs/javascript/callbacks). The return value of the `.groupBy()` method is a null-prototype object that doesn't inherit any object methods.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
Object.groupBy(items, callfunc);
```

> The `items` are usually an array. They will be grouped according to the result of the `callfunc`.
> The `callfunc` is a callback function. This function has to return a string or a symbol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `items`: It is an array. They will be grouped according to the result of the `callfunc`.
- `callfunc`: It is a callback function. This function returns a string or a symbol.
```

## Example

> In this example, we want to group users by their subscription year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the code groups users by their subscription year.
```
Don't use first and second-person pronouns.

```js
const subs = [
    { userName: 'Lisa', yearSub: 2022 },
    { userName: 'Akim', yearSub: 2020 },
    { userName: 'Lola', yearSub: 2020 },
    ];

const subsByYear = Object.groupBy(subs, user => {
    return user.yearSub;
    });
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a note saying that the reader needs to add a library like Lodash to run this code.

Author: **Note:** To run this code, it is necessary to add a library like [Lodash](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15#groupBy).

Reviewer: @cecilezan You need to add that in the content and not as a comment. You can visit Codecademy's [style guide](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md) for that.

> The output would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of the above code will be:
```

```shell

> { 2020: [
> { userName: 'Akim', yearSub: 2020 },
> { userName: 'Lola', yearSub: 2020 },
> ],
>   2022 : [
> { userName: 'Lisa', yearSub: 2022 },
> ]}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{
  '2020': [
    { userName: 'Akim', yearSub: 2020 },
    { userName: 'Lola', yearSub: 2020 }
  ],
  '2022': [ { userName: 'Lisa', yearSub: 2022 } ]
}
```
I removed some extra commas from the output.

```

> ## 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> >**Note:** To run this code, it is necessary to add a library like [Lodash](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15#groupBy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** To run this code, it is necessary to add a library like [Lodash](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15#groupBy).
```
